README.md, before:

rollply
=======

Rollply is an R package built on top on plyr's **ply functions to make 
moving-window based computations easier. Just provide a function that works on
a data.frame, rollply will take care of building the appropriate subsets and 
apply that function to each of them. 

Some packages out there contain functions that compute moving-window statistics 
(e.g. TTR::SMA), but were not flexible enough for my use and required specific 
time-series classes. Rollply works on generic data.frames and builds upon plyr's
advantages (parallelism, progress report, etc.).

In short, it allows writing something like this:

```r
library(ggplot2)
library(plyr)
library(rollply)
# Generate data
dat <- data.frame(time=seq.int(1000),
                  position=cumsum(rnorm(1000,0,10)))

rollav <- rollply(dat, ~ time, wdw.size=10, 
                  summarise, position=mean(position))

ggplot(NULL,aes(time,position)) + 
  geom_point(data=dat) +
  geom_line(color='red', data=rollav)
```

![rollply_example: random walk](/misc/random_walk.png?raw=true "Average of a 1D random walk")

Rollply supports groups and 2D moving windows too: 

```r
# Generate three 2D random walks
dat <- ddply(data.frame(person=c('françois','nicolas','jacques')), ~ person, 
             summarise, 
              time=seq.int(1000),
              x=cumsum(rnorm(1000,0,1)),
              y=cumsum(rnorm(1000,0,1)))

# Smoothed trajectory over ten time-steps
rollav <- rollply(dat, ~ time | person, wdw.size=10, grid_npts=1000,
                  summarise, x=mean(x), y=mean(y))

ggplot(dat,aes(x,y,color=person)) + 
  geom_point(alpha=.5, shape='+') + 
  geom_path(data=rollav) 
```

![rollply_example: random walk with groups](/misc/random_walk_groups.png?raw=true "Average of 2D random walks")

```r
# Where did people spend their time ?
# we fix the grid across groups
fixed_grid <- build_grid_squaretile(dat[ ,c('x','y')], 5000) 
rollav <- rollply(dat, ~ x + y | person, wdw.size=2, grid=fixed_grid,
                  summarise, time.spent=length(time))

ggplot(subset(rollav, time.spent>0)) + 
  geom_point(aes(x,y, color=person, size=time.spent)) + 
  facet_grid(~person)
```

![rollply_example: random walk with 2D window](/misc/random_walk_time_spent.png?raw=true "Time spent in each window")


Installation 
----

 - From github (recommended): 
 
 ```r
  if ( !require(devtools) ) {
    install.packages('devtools')
    library(devtools)
  }
  install_github('alexgenin/rollply')
  library(rollply)
 ```

 - Rollply is also available through R-forge, which might be a better options for
windows users: 

 ```r
  install.packages("rollply", repos="http://R-Forge.R-project.org")
 ```

Rollply is still under heavy development so please be patient in case of 
breakage !

todo
----
 - finish documenting !
 - Allow other outputs (currently we only allow a data.frame output)
 - Maybe implement the subset selection in C++ for 1D moving windows
 - ?

Commit message:

Updated README.md to reflect publication to CRAN

README.md, after:

rollply
=======

Rollply is an R package built on top on plyr's **ply functions to make
moving-window based computations easier. Just provide a function that works on
a data.frame, rollply will take care of building the appropriate subsets and
apply that function to each of them.

Some packages out there contain functions that compute moving-window statistics
(e.g. TTR::SMA), but were not flexible enough for my use and required specific
time-series classes. Rollply works on generic data.frames and builds upon plyr's
advantages (parallelism, progress report, etc.).

In short, it allows writing something like this:

```r
library(ggplot2)
library(plyr)
library(rollply)
# Generate data
dat <- data.frame(time=seq.int(1000),
                  position=cumsum(rnorm(1000,0,10)))

rollav <- rollply(dat, ~ time, wdw.size=10,
                  summarise, position=mean(position))

ggplot(NULL,aes(time,position)) +
  geom_point(data=dat) +
  geom_line(color='red', data=rollav)
```

![rollply_example: random walk](/misc/random_walk.png?raw=true "Average of a 1D random walk")

Rollply supports groups and 2D moving windows too:

```r
# Generate three 2D random walks
dat <- ddply(data.frame(person=c('françois','nicolas','jacques')), ~ person,
             summarise,
              time=seq.int(1000),
              x=cumsum(rnorm(1000,0,1)),
              y=cumsum(rnorm(1000,0,1)))

# Smoothed trajectory over ten time-steps
rollav <- rollply(dat, ~ time | person, wdw.size=10, grid_npts=1000,
                  summarise, x=mean(x), y=mean(y))

ggplot(dat,aes(x,y,color=person)) +
  geom_point(alpha=.5, shape='+') +
  geom_path(data=rollav)
```

![rollply_example: random walk with groups](/misc/random_walk_groups.png?raw=true "Average of 2D random walks")

```r
# Where did people spend their time ?
# we fix the grid across groups
fixed_grid <- build_grid_squaretile(dat[ ,c('x','y')], 5000)
rollav <- rollply(dat, ~ x + y | person, wdw.size=2, grid=fixed_grid,
                  summarise, time.spent=length(time))

ggplot(subset(rollav, time.spent>0)) +
  geom_point(aes(x,y, color=person, size=time.spent)) +
  facet_grid(~person)
```

![rollply_example: random walk with 2D window](/misc/random_walk_time_spent.png?raw=true "Time spent in each window")


Installation
----

 - From CRAN (recommended, although there are some issues with the documentation):
```r
  install.packages('rollply')
```

 - Development version from github (recommended, updated more frequently):

 ```r
  if ( !require(devtools) ) {
    install.packages('devtools')
    library(devtools)
  }
  install_github('alexgenin/rollply')
  library(rollply)
 ```

 - Development version from R-forge:

 ```r
  install.packages("rollply", repos="http://R-Forge.R-project.org")
 ```

Rollply is still under heavy development so please be patient in case of
breakage !
